202101251318
Tags: #z #aws #lessons #qt

---
# Simple Storage Service

Amazon S3 or Simple Storage Service is a storage for the Internet usage that based in AWS datacenters. 

Amazon S3 allows people to store [[Objects|objects]] (files) in [[Buckets|buckets]] (directories). These buckets must have globally unique names, and they are defined at the [[Regions|region]] level. 

There is a naming convention that every bucket name must follow:
- No uppercase
- No underscore 
- 3-63 characters long
- Not an IP
- Must start with lowercase letter or number

As all other AWS Services, S3 also has its own [[S3 Encryption|encryption]] tools and techniques. 

### Advantages of using S3

Amazon S3 (it is its actual name) is created with maximum simplicity and robustness. It is means that S3 has a minimal set of features that provide its basic work with inner entities. Some of advantages of S3:
- Creating Buckets (You can create and name bucket)
- Storing Data ("infinite" amount of data you can store here)
- Downloading Data (Download data from your bucket for anyone who capable of)
- Permissions (Grant access to entities of your bucket to others)
- Standard interfaces (REST and SOAP interfaces to work with any internet-dev kit)

### Security in S3

There are two types of security in Amazon S3: User Based and Resource Based. User Based security is built on top of the [[IAM]] policies. Resource Based security includes three ways of secure information: 

- [[S3 Bucket Policies|Bucket Policies]] - bucket wide rules from the S3 console - allows cross account;
- [[S3 ACL|Object Access Control List]] (ACL) - less common than first one;
- [[S3 ACL|Bucket Access Control List]] (ACL)- even less common than others.

> An IAM principal can access an S3 object if the user IAM permissions allow it OR the resource policy ALLOWS it, AND there’s no explicit DENY.

--- 

#### Quick Tip

> You can think about Amazon S3 as a basic data map between bundle "bucket + key + version ID" and the object itself

---
### Zero-Links
- [[00 AWS]]

---
### Links
- [[AWS]]
- [[Buckets]]
- [[Objects]]
- [[Regions]]
- [[S3 ACL]]
- [[S3 Bucket Policies]]
- [[S3 Encryption]]

